# Objections

## I'm not interested in civil liberties and all that, I'm only interested in attacks against business
I have bad news for you, my friend. Sophisticated techniques pioneered by state sponsored attackers very quickly [find their way into the toolkit of organised crime and even petty criminals](https://www.darkreading.com/vulnerabilities---threats/why-you-need-to-study-nation-state-attacks/a/d-id/1329690). There is also the fact that some state sponsored actors [almost solely devote themselves to economic espionage](http://money.cnn.com/2014/05/20/news/china-espionage-business/index.html). You may want to also consider that [if a nation state compromises your product you'll see a drop in users](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FBI%E2%80%93Apple_encryption_dispute) and, therefore, profit. Like it or not, the top end of Wall Street are in the same boat as other 99% of us.

## P2 is a terrible idea, you're helping terrorists!
To terrorists you could add organised crime, hostile foreign governments, even your actual government if it isn't terribly sophisticated and doesn't already know this all themselves. This is not an accusation the project even needs to engage with but for the sake of maybe changing some minds, here is the offical P2 stance:

Firstly, this is a compilation of intelligence from publiclly avalable channels, at no point has any new information been added to the public domain and no laws have been broken. But the bigger point here is that there are plenty of entities that help terrorists, organised crime, governments etc., at a scale this database never could. One of them is [gun manufacturers](http://time.com/how-europes-terrorists-get-their-guns/), and there are plenty others so you have bigger problems than P2.

To specifically address the point about terrorism, and this feeds into the wider debate about encryption and national security, it's true a terrorist could use P2 to assist them in comitting an act of violence. Again though, everthing in P2 is compiled from online sources so if P2 didn't exist that assistance will still be there to be found. The basic argument for privacy, and this comes back to terrorism, is curtains or blinds on your windows don't make you a criminal, it just means you want privacy. It's a part of human nature to want to express ourselves with no one, or those close to us, rather than an unchosen party or indeed the whole world. We need to be able to express ourselves and not all of humanity is pretty (talking about expression of opinions here, no judgement about why you want curtains). That's not to say the ugly elements should be accepted, but sometimes people want to express them and its important they do in environments where there are a lot of moderate voices that, through social mechanisms of a community, dissuade the person from those ugly views. 

We've all held a view at some point in our lives that was repugnant to someone, and repugnant is defined here as a view that infringes upon others (be that, and this is not an exhaustive list, physical infringement, as in violence or coercsion, intellectual infringement, such as racism or fundimental religious views condemning others, or any other manner of infringement). This is part of being human, we aren't born knowing who we are and who we are changes over the course of our lives, we try on different ideas at different points in like like children playing dressup, it's a form of self discovery. What probably happened when you held such a view was you matured and grew out of it either by interacting with others and passively concluding that the view is socially unacceptable, examining why its unacceptable and internalising that conclusion, or being actively told "that's not cool!" If neither of these happened and you still hold that view it's probably because you in an echo chamber, but don't worry, the world is much bigger than your little chamber and there is still hope for you. Go explore it.

Tying this all into terrorism, a large amount of national security rhetoric feeds into extremist narratives about racist regimes closed to freedom of expression. But talking specifically about community, I want disaffected youths to find encryption tools so they can find safe spaces, free of government surveillance, where they can express themselves and the community can fill those spaces with moderate voices. If encryption is cracked down upon these people are either 1. going to feel repressed because there is no safe space for them to express themselves and those ideas may not be moderated out through community interaction, or 2. they will go looking for safe spaces and if the moderate community can't provide one, hardened extremists will. Once one of these two things have happened radicalisation has started and its virtually game over. Time and again we see police and intelligence agencies don't have the resources to investigate every name that comes across their desk. Figures differ but it's often quoted you need between ten and thirty people for round the clock surviellance of one target. Through sheer math some terrorist attacks will be successful. Then you have the open question of will the person even be considered a target for surveillance or will they get a pass because they're white caucasian, for instance. You need to prevent either 1 or 2 from happening.

We can all take a leaf from Hunuism, or [Ubuntu](http://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/p/index.php?title=Ubuntu_(philosophy)), a belief held by many southern African tribes that roughly translates into English as "I exist through community and community exists through me." Even the most stauch individualist will concede that, while they may not be typical of the norm, we humans are by and large social creatures. Community has been regulating itself since the dawn of time, and while community must not become tyranny, people must not infringe upon others. [Surveillance is corrosive to privacy and community](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2013/08/the-surveillance-state-is-corrosive-the-case-of-pamela-jones/278846/) to quote the common phrase. We need privacy, becasue it's the bedrock of community, and we need community because it's the bulwark aganist extremism.

Bottom line, for all you critics out there, Panopticon Project is actually a deradicalisation tool.

## I still think this is a terrible project
No one is forcing you to read, please leave.

## All your sources are FAKE NEWS and you should be getting information from outlets like RT and Breitbart News!
I'm not even going to engage with you, please leave.
