personas_and_pathways.md, before:

![alt tag](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24201238/29351849-9c3087b4-82b8-11e7-8fed-350e3b8b4945.png)

# Panopticon Project

## Personas and Pathways

Personas are a thought exercise in thinking about potential contributors and users to look at how they would engage with the project, helping to identify any barriers to entry and/or contribution so they can be removed. These personas where created as part of the [Mozilla Open Leadership Series](https://mozilla.github.io/open-leadership-training-series/articles/building-communities-of-contributors/bring-on-contributors-using-personas-and-pathways/) and are completely fictitious. 

## Contribute

To ensure we have a diverse range of personas and pathways, people contributing to P2 are encouraged to create their own personas with complete pathways and add them here. Images should be taken from creative commons or be images you have rights to.

Use this rough formula to create your persona but feel free to add whatever you think is pertinent for the exercise.
* One sentence naming your persona and covering what they do for study, employment, etc.
* Two sentences listing some facts about our person to make them believable, covering things like family and pastimes.
* Three sentences explaining why they might want to use or contribute to P2, including reasons why they may be predisposed towards or against P2.

Use this formula to create your persona's pathway

* Discovery
* First Contact
* Participation
* Sustained Participation
* Networked Participation
* Leadership

The point of pathways is to identify barriers for entry into the community of contribution to the project, so feel free to list out identified barriers and if you like add possible suggestions around their removal.

### Carolina Martínez

![Security Researcher](https://media.defense.gov/2017/Sep/14/2001809618/1200/900/0/160824-M-PS017-857L.JPG)

Carolina Martinez is a security researcher from Colombia. She self taught herself programming when her parents bought her a barely running second hand computer for her tenth birthday, and she started competing in bug bounty programs at the age of fifteen to try and bring in extra money for the household. As she got older she started listening more and more to the discussions her parents had with aunts and uncles worrying about actions the government was taking against its populace in the name of cracking down on crime. Carolina came across P2 while studying recently released exploits to see if she could automate her own tools while bug hunting. She saw that a large part of P2 was about trying to inform people about the capabilities of governments and corporations, but she felt that contributing would one, draw unwanted attention to her and her family and two, take her away from bug hunting and bringing in a much required income.

### Pathway

* Discovery - Carolina found P2 while studying recently released exploits that she wanted to build into her penetration testing toolset
* First Contact - She contacts P2 to discuss the exploits further using a throwaway account from [Tutanota](https://tutanota.com/) to limit the chances of being identified
* Sustained Participation - Carolina speaks to people in the local information security community to get their thoughts on the project. She sees the usefulness such a resource so starts popularising it among people she trusts but is still a bit leery of contributing
* Networked Participation - Carolina finds P2 useful and thinks it could help others in the local information security community financially, by providing a a needed resource for people already in the field or looking to break in and land employment. She creates a GitHub account not tied to her identity and starts submitting things she comes across in her own work about tools and techniques not already included in P2
* Leadership - Carolina encourages others to participate in P2 to strengthen the grass roots information security community in Columbia. By contributing to a shared resource in the commons people in her community feel empowered to take control of their online presence for the betterment of public discourse against corruption and exploitation.

### Najja Odongo

![Journalist](http://maxpixel.freegreatpicture.com/static/photo/1x/Journalist-Mbale-Uganda-Cameraman-Media-Africa-2314796.jpg)

Najja Odongo is a journalist from Uganda. He is passionate about documenting human rights issues in his country and wants a safe and stable world for his wife and three children. Najja has no background in computer science but is starting to see through his work that he needs to have to understand the basics of principles like [operational security](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operations_security) and how governments conduct electronic surveillance. He's having trouble though as information online is so disparate. It's hard to tell what are the pros and cons of different things are like email services and communication apps, and with so much hearsay its near impossible to understand with any real certainty what governments and even corporations are and are not capable of. Najja is disillusioned by the lack of empirical evidence cited in information security, something anathema to the journalist in him, and doesn't know where to start.

* Discovery - In trying to find a well researched article comparing different encrypted communication apps, Najja notices P2 in his [DuckDuckGo](https://duckduckgo.com/) search
* First Contact - Najja looks over the Readme for the project and heads straight to the Primer repository to quickly get across some of the basic concepts
* Participation - He looks over the Tools repository and sends it to everyone in the office. They start discussing what simple things the studio can do to increase security without spending money and start using some of the things mentioned in the repository. Najja writes up an article on the user experience the staff have with the different tools and submits it to the Tools repository
* Sustained Participation - Najja submits the primary sources not already in Panopticon Project he consults for stories that focuses on surveillance committed by the government
* Networked Participation - Najja reaches out to security researchers contributing to P2 to help vet and anonymise technical information sources give him that can later be submitted to P2
* Leadership - Najja is told of a spear phishing campaign targeting Ugandan activists. He creates a repository in Panopticon project where he stores copies of the emails received by victims and encourages everyone impacted by the campaign to post any information they come across. Collectively with security researchers they compile an evidence based story that Najja breaks to international news agencies

### Hadia Abu El Haj

![Activist](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/37/Palestinian_girl_with_Palestinian_flag.jpg/800px-Palestinian_girl_with_Palestinian_flag.jpg)

Hadia Abu El Haj is an activist living in the Gaza Strip. While she has been studying at the University College of Applied Sciences, Hadia has been an outspoken advocate for womens rights, political reform of the Palestinian National Authority, LGBT rights and Palestinian autonomy. Between classes and community organising her schedule is packed and she doesn't have time for a lot else. Given the fact that Hadia speaks widely on a number of issues she's had run ins with hard line islamists along with both the Israeli and Palestinian authorities. Hadia is bombarded with suspicious looking emails and her social media accounts are often locked out due to multiple failed login attempts. She wants to know how she can defend herself online and perhaps press back to pull the veil off the people that want to silence her and others.

* Discovery - Hadia laments to a friend that she wishes activists had access to the technical capabilities and resources governments and well funded groups do. The friend links her to P2 and says there are groups online trying to organise these kinds of resources from what is already in the public domain
* First Contact - Hadia reads through the community documentation and decides P2 will be useful as a community resource. She sends it out to a number of mailing lists she's a part of
* Participation - Hadia triages a number of phishing emails from her inbox and builds a list of email addresses, IP addresses and domains associated with malicious actors targetting local activists
* Sustained Participation - Using the information put together, Hadia and friends step through some of the open source intelligence examples listed as part of P2 to idenity further information about the malicious actors
* Networked Participation - with the help of friends studying computer science, Hadia creates a virtual machine sandbox, installs open source malware reverse engineering tools, opens the attachments on the phishing emails in the sandbox and runs a basic analysis of the malware.
* Leadership - Hadia runs classes at the University College of Applied Sciences covering topics ranging from operational security to the capabilities of APTs that actively target middle eastern activists, using the Panopticon Project GitHub repository to upskill people and ramp them up to assist with the project and help others in their community

### Persona Four
Male Community Leader Pacific Islands

Commit message:

Add Fara and Vaitiare's story

personas_and_pathways.md, after:

![alt tag](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24201238/29351849-9c3087b4-82b8-11e7-8fed-350e3b8b4945.png)

# Panopticon Project

## Personas and Pathways

Personas are a thought exercise in thinking about potential contributors and users to look at how they would engage with the project, helping to identify any barriers to entry and/or contribution so they can be removed. These personas where created as part of the [Mozilla Open Leadership Series](https://mozilla.github.io/open-leadership-training-series/articles/building-communities-of-contributors/bring-on-contributors-using-personas-and-pathways/) and are completely fictitious. 

## Contribute

To ensure we have a diverse range of personas and pathways, people contributing to P2 are encouraged to create their own personas with complete pathways and add them here. Images should be taken from creative commons or be images you have rights to.

Use this rough formula to create your persona but feel free to add whatever you think is pertinent for the exercise.
* One sentence naming your persona and covering what they do for study, employment, etc.
* Two sentences listing some facts about our person to make them believable, covering things like family and pastimes.
* Three sentences explaining why they might want to use or contribute to P2, including reasons why they may be predisposed towards or against P2.

Use this formula to create your persona's pathway

* Discovery
* First Contact
* Participation
* Sustained Participation
* Networked Participation
* Leadership

The point of pathways is to identify barriers for entry into the community of contribution to the project, so feel free to list out identified barriers and if you like add possible suggestions around their removal.

### Carolina Martínez

![Security Researcher](https://media.defense.gov/2017/Sep/14/2001809618/1200/900/0/160824-M-PS017-857L.JPG)

Carolina Martinez is a security researcher from Colombia. She self taught herself programming when her parents bought her a barely running second hand computer for her tenth birthday, and she started competing in bug bounty programs at the age of fifteen to try and bring in extra money for the household. As she got older she started listening more and more to the discussions her parents had with aunts and uncles worrying about actions the government was taking against its populace in the name of cracking down on crime. Carolina came across P2 while studying recently released exploits to see if she could automate her own tools while bug hunting. She saw that a large part of P2 was about trying to inform people about the capabilities of governments and corporations, but she felt that contributing would one, draw unwanted attention to her and her family and two, take her away from bug hunting and bringing in a much required income.

### Pathway

* Discovery - Carolina found P2 while studying recently released exploits that she wanted to build into her penetration testing toolset
* First Contact - She contacts P2 to discuss the exploits further using a throwaway account from [Tutanota](https://tutanota.com/) to limit the chances of being identified
* Sustained Participation - Carolina speaks to people in the local information security community to get their thoughts on the project. She sees the usefulness such a resource so starts popularising it among people she trusts but is still a bit leery of contributing
* Networked Participation - Carolina finds P2 useful and thinks it could help others in the local information security community financially, by providing a a needed resource for people already in the field or looking to break in and land employment. She creates a GitHub account not tied to her identity and starts submitting things she comes across in her own work about tools and techniques not already included in P2
* Leadership - Carolina encourages others to participate in P2 to strengthen the grass roots information security community in Columbia. By contributing to a shared resource in the commons people in her community feel empowered to take control of their online presence for the betterment of public discourse against corruption and exploitation.

### Najja Odongo

![Journalist](http://maxpixel.freegreatpicture.com/static/photo/1x/Journalist-Mbale-Uganda-Cameraman-Media-Africa-2314796.jpg)

Najja Odongo is a journalist from Uganda. He is passionate about documenting human rights issues in his country and wants a safe and stable world for his wife and three children. Najja has no background in computer science but is starting to see through his work that he needs to have to understand the basics of principles like [operational security](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operations_security) and how governments conduct electronic surveillance. He's having trouble though as information online is so disparate. It's hard to tell what are the pros and cons of different things are like email services and communication apps, and with so much hearsay its near impossible to understand with any real certainty what governments and even corporations are and are not capable of. Najja is disillusioned by the lack of empirical evidence cited in information security, something anathema to the journalist in him, and doesn't know where to start.

* Discovery - In trying to find a well researched article comparing different encrypted communication apps, Najja notices P2 in his [DuckDuckGo](https://duckduckgo.com/) search
* First Contact - Najja looks over the Readme for the project and heads straight to the Primer repository to quickly get across some of the basic concepts
* Participation - He looks over the Tools repository and sends it to everyone in the office. They start discussing what simple things the studio can do to increase security without spending money and start using some of the things mentioned in the repository. Najja writes up an article on the user experience the staff have with the different tools and submits it to the Tools repository
* Sustained Participation - Najja submits the primary sources not already in Panopticon Project he consults for stories that focuses on surveillance committed by the government
* Networked Participation - Najja reaches out to security researchers contributing to P2 to help vet and anonymise technical information sources give him that can later be submitted to P2
* Leadership - Najja is told of a spear phishing campaign targeting Ugandan activists. He creates a repository in Panopticon project where he stores copies of the emails received by victims and encourages everyone impacted by the campaign to post any information they come across. Collectively with security researchers they compile an evidence based story that Najja breaks to international news agencies

### Hadia Abu El Haj

![Activist](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/37/Palestinian_girl_with_Palestinian_flag.jpg/800px-Palestinian_girl_with_Palestinian_flag.jpg)

Hadia Abu El Haj is an activist living in the Gaza Strip. While she has been studying at the University College of Applied Sciences, Hadia has been an outspoken advocate for womens rights, political reform of the Palestinian National Authority, LGBT rights and Palestinian autonomy. Between classes and community organising her schedule is packed and she doesn't have time for a lot else. Given the fact that Hadia speaks widely on a number of issues she's had run ins with hard line islamists along with both the Israeli and Palestinian authorities. Hadia is bombarded with suspicious looking emails and her social media accounts are often locked out due to multiple failed login attempts. She wants to know how she can defend herself online and perhaps press back to pull the veil off the people that want to silence her and others.

* Discovery - Hadia laments to a friend that she wishes activists had access to the technical capabilities and resources governments and well funded groups do. The friend links her to P2 and says there are groups online trying to organise these kinds of resources from what is already in the public domain
* First Contact - Hadia reads through the community documentation and decides P2 will be useful as a community resource. She sends it out to a number of mailing lists she's a part of
* Participation - Hadia triages a number of phishing emails from her inbox and builds a list of email addresses, IP addresses and domains associated with malicious actors targetting local activists
* Sustained Participation - Using the information put together, Hadia and friends step through some of the open source intelligence examples listed as part of P2 to idenity further information about the malicious actors
* Networked Participation - with the help of friends studying computer science, Hadia creates a virtual machine sandbox, installs open source malware reverse engineering tools, opens the attachments on the phishing emails in the sandbox and runs a basic analysis of the malware.
* Leadership - Hadia runs classes at the University College of Applied Sciences covering topics ranging from operational security to the capabilities of APTs that actively target middle eastern activists, using the Panopticon Project GitHub repository to upskill people and ramp them up to assist with the project and help others in their community

### Fara and Vaitiare Rua

![Community Leaders](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/5/57/Polynesian_Cultural_Center_-_Tahiti_Performance_%288329440912%29.jpg/800px-Polynesian_Cultural_Center_-_Tahiti_Performance_%288329440912%29.jpg)

Fara and Vaitiare Rua are brother and sister, born and raised on Tahiti. They are both performers, participating in ceremonies put on by the local tourism body for visitors who also serve as community leaders. Both the Rua siblings volunteer with local charities and community building groups. Lately, Fara and Vaitiare have seen a number of delegations from both the United States and China on the island, and there is talk of aid money and infrastructure development among the local community. However, there is also talk land deals and Fara and Vaitiare had it drilled into them from a young age by their parents due to interactions with the French that foriengers looking to buy land rarely have the interests of the locals at heart. Fara and Vaitiare want to educate their community about the possible risks of what's happening and to look into the companies behind the proposed land deals, but since their entire economy is geared to tourism it's hard to sway public opinion.
